.. Author: Akshay Mestry <xa@mes3.dev>
.. Created on: Monday, February 24, 2025
.. Last updated on: Wednesday, March 05 2025

:og:title: Guiding Stars
:og:description: Expressing heartfelt gratitude to the heros who shaped my
    path in AI, Learning, and Beyond
:og:type: article

.. _miscellany-guiding-stars:

===============================================================================
Guiding Stars
===============================================================================

.. author::
    :name: Akshay Mestry
    :email: xa@mes3.dev
    :about: DePaul University
    :avatar: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/90549089?v=4
    :github: https://github.com/xames3
    :linkedin: https://linkedin.com/in/xames3
    :timestamp: Feb 24, 2025

.. rst-class:: lead

   Heartfelt gratitude to the people who shaped my path in AI, Learning, and
   Beyond

Blimey! Whilst writing this article, I paused for a moment to reflect on my
personal achievements and learnings. As I was pondering most, if not all, of
the significant milestones in my career, from choosing a career path into the
realm of Artificial Intelligence to building this platform, there stands a
massive constellation of remarkable individuals who've shaped the person I am
today. To those prominent figures in my life, this article is more than an
acknowledgment; it is a small tribute to those whose support, wisdom, and
belief in me have fuelled my passion for technology, teaching, and open source.

.. admonition:: A note of gratitude

    Like I mentioned, this article is merely a small reflection on my past and
    the people who've critically influenced my academic, personal, and
    professional journey. Although I've shared comprehensive reflections about
    a select few individuals due to a deeper and more personal experience with
    them, the impact of everyone mentioned here is of equal significance.

    Each one of you has shaped the person I am today, and this article stands
    as a collective token of appreciation or tribute to all your guidance,
    friendship, and support.

.. _like-gaia-you-ground-me:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Like Gaia, you ground me
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At the very core of this journey is my mum, **Sunita**. Like `Gaia`_, the
Earth goddess who gives life to all, my mum has been the quintessential
foundation of my existence. Mum, your unwavering support and belief during my
highs and lows have been the cornerstone of my ambition. Although I didn't get
to spend a lot of time with you in my early days, you taught me the value of
graft, the inevitability of tough choices in life, and the importance of
embracing my past.

.. figure:: ../assets/me-and-mum.jpg
    :alt: Me and Mum celebrating my admission into DePaul University

    My mum and I, back in September of 2022, right after my admission into
    DePaul University at our family home in Enfield

From the moments of comfort at my lowest to the greatest acts of selflessness
at my peak, you've been there, guiding me through it all, keeping me grounded.
I'm chuffed to bits with my life today, and it's all down to the choices you
helped me make. I still remember when I chose the career path to pursue
Artificial Intelligence, a field vast and proper daunting at the time, your
encouragement was the anchor that kept me steady and disciplined. All those
late nights, parked at the kitchen table with stacks of programming books,
prepping for certifications and interviews, you'd pop over with a cracking
cuppa of `Masala chai`_, reminding me not to throw in the towel but also
nudging me to get some kip. It's something I miss more than words can say.

Ever since Father passed, your love has been the very foundation upon which I
stand, and I'm well grateful for every sacrifice you've made to see me grow and
succeed. Mum, you are my Earth, my Gaia, and I am forever thankful for the
depth of your love and the strength of your spirit.

.. _charlotte-my-uma:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Charlotte, my Uma
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Charlotte**, though you're no longer with us, your influence is an
indispensable part of who I am today. Much like `Uma`_'s love for `Shankar`_,
which transformed him from a celibate hermit to a householder, your presence
in my life sparked a profound change in me. You were the spark, my Uma, that
ignited my deeper fascination with technology. I vividly remember you helping
me shed layers of self-doubt and pretence, steering me towards a deeper
understanding of who I truly am. It was you who nudged me to question things
and go beyond a surface-level understanding, to dig into the maths and logic
behind them.

It was because of you that my interest in technology grew over time. And while
it was growing, you reminded me that these technologies aren't just about
algorithms and problem-solving, it's about the **impact** they have on our
lives. I remember how you would listen patiently as I banged on about new
technologies or tools, always asking the right questions that made me think
harder and probe deeper. Your encouragement pushed me to think about how
technology could transform lives, and more importantly, how I could share that
knowledge with others. It was your faith in my ability as a teacher that made
me realise the joy of sharing knowledge. You often said, "Akshay, the best way
to learn is to teach." Those words still echo in my heart every time I stand
before a classroom or mentor someone. In every student I guide, I see you,
reminding me of our last chat...

.. epigraph::

    If you loved me like a child, then live your life like a child. Walk this
    rock like a child. Keep moving forward through calm and storm, I'll always
    be with you Akshay, but in a different form.

    -- Charlotte Parks

Like I said, as Uma's love shaped and transformed Shankar, your love shaped and
transformed me, guiding me into my truest form. It was your belief in me as a
teacher that planted the seed for this very platform. Your spirit lives on in
every tutorial I write, every student I mentor, and every bit of knowledge I
share.

.. _sajiths-guidance-krishnas-wisdom:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sajith's guidance, Krishna's wisdom
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Back in 2017, my professional career kicked off at `Accenture`_, a place that
will always hold a special place in my heart. This was where I had the good
fortune of working under **Sajith**'s mentorship. Sajith, you were the first
person who truly saw something in me, not just a worker punching in hours, but
someone capable of carving out a path in AI and Machine Learning. Well, it's
been quite a while since I worked at Accenture, but I remember when I first
started, I was still figuring out my place in the cut-throat corporate world.
I was nervous and frustrated at the same time. But you, Sajith, you saw
something in me that I wasn't sure even existed.

I'll never forget that day you took me for a walk and told me to zoom out, to
look at the bigger picture of my life, my career, and my relationships. I was
overwhelmed, unsure of myself. But you didn't chuck me in at the deep end and
leave me to flounder. You stood by me, not with empty reassurances, but with a
steady push to grow in ways I hadn't even imagined. Although you were my
manager, much senior in the career level, you never treated me any
differently. Your approach was unlike any I had experienced before. I do
remember you telling me, "It's never about doing things perfectly, it is about
learning and evolving along the way."

.. figure:: ../assets/krishna-and-arjuna.jpeg
    :alt: An AI generated image of Krishna and Arjuna in anime style

    Image generated with `Flux-Animex-v2-LoRA
    <https://huggingface.co/spaces/Neaty/anime>`_ model

Those simple words stayed with me ever since. You always encouraged me to dive
into the deep end, to question things, to understand the **"why"** behind
every decision. And when I struggled, as I inevitably did, you didn't just
offer solutions. You guided me like a teacher, always patient, always present,
but never hovering. Sajith, you were more than a mentor to me, you were my
guide, my `Krishna`_. And just like Krishna's wisdom guided Arjuna through
battle, your steady hand has carried me through my own battles, in both
academia and my career. To you, I salute and thank you!

.. _my-supporting-cast:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
My Supporting Cast
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

People who know me well, the ones in my inner circle, know just how much of a
cinephile I am. To me, life, much like cinema, is never a **solo** act. Quite
often the spotlight shines on the lead cast, the actors, directors, etc.; the
names we usually tend to remember. But the true magic of cinema lies in the
collective effort of countless individuals who work behind the scenes. Just
like a cinema, my journey has never been a one-man show. It's been shaped by
an extraordinary cast of mentors, friends, and supporters, each playing a
vital role in the story I'm telling today on this very platform.

Whatever you're seeing here on this website, be it my projects, ideas, the
teachings, all of it is a summation of the invaluable contributions and
influence of those who stood besides me, guiding me, and sometimes nudging me
to go beyond my comfort zone. So, this section of the article is my version of
the end credits. A heartfelt tribute to the people whose names might not
always be in the spotlight but whose impact resonates in every line of code I
write and every lesson I pass on.

And, just like the credits roll long after the cinema's end, this list will
only grow as time goes on. I'm quite chuffed to know there are more names
waiting to be added to my cinematic universe, more brilliant minds and kind
souls yet to cross paths with me.

.. note::

    The below list is in alphabetical order solely for my OCD. It doesn't
    imply anything else, no hidden meanings, no rankings. Every person on this
    list holds equal importance for me and has had massive influence on my
    life.

.. _cast-cameron-riddell:

Cameron Riddell
===============================================================================

**Cameron**, my open science guru and data visualisation wizard! Though we've
never met in person, our virtual exchanges have been nothing short of
transformative. I consider myself incredibly lucky to have had you as a mentor
during the early stages of my open science journey. Though we live in different
time zones and states apart, I've never felt that our conversations are
affected by our geographical differences. Despite my experiences working with
data for a few years now, your insights, particularly in the domain of
visualisations, have not only inspired me but also made me critically think
about presenting it effectively. You introduced me to `Edward Tufte`_'s
brilliant work, a revelation that has since changed the way I approach visual
analysis.

But that's not all I admire about you, Cameron. What truly sets you apart, at
least for me, is your teaching style. It's a proper standout. I do remember
attending one of the `Open Science Trainings`_ and re-learning `Git`_, of all
things! That moment, I learned that no matter how experienced one might be,
there's always room for growth and improvement. Your influence on me as an
educator is very strong. I'm genuinely chuffed to have had the chance to learn
from you. And I'm super grateful for all your suggestions and advice, knowing
that your guidance and insights are always one message away.

Cheers for being such a legend, mate!

.. _cast-john-komarnicki:

John Komarnicki
===============================================================================

A top bloke and a gracious host! **John** is the host of
`Chicago Code and Coffee`_, a monthly networking event that's become a proper
lifeline for students, job seekers, and professionals alike in Chicago. To me,
it's more than just a place to swap LinkedIn profiles. It's a warm, welcoming
space where people from all walks of life come together to share their stories,
build genuine connections, and find a bit of friendship along the way.

.. carousel::
    :data-bs-interval: false
    :data-bs-keyboard: false
    :data-bs-pause: false
    :data-bs-ride: false
    :data-bs-touch: false
    :show_controls:
    :show_fade:
    :show_indicators:

    .. image:: ../assets/chicago-code-coffee-1.jpg
        :alt: Chicago Code and Coffee Event (February 2025)

    .. image:: ../assets/chicago-code-coffee-2.jpg
        :alt: Chicago Code and Coffee Event (January 2025)

    .. image:: ../assets/chicago-code-coffee-3.jpg
        :alt: Chicago Code and Coffee Event (December 2024)

    .. image:: ../assets/chicago-code-coffee-4.jpg
        :alt: Chicago Code and Coffee Event Welcoming Banner (February 2025)

I met John at one of these events, during what was possibly one of the most
trying times in my life and relationships. I was looking for something, maybe
a bit of a distraction, and Chicago Code and Coffee turned out to be exactly
what I needed. It's been a fair few months since that first event, but what
struck me then still holds true now: it wasn't just a meet-up, it was an open,
supportive community that you and your team had fostered for a while.

As the months go by, our Chicago community has grown significantly, and more
people are making it to the event. It's easy to underestimate the power of
such massive gatherings, but John's work speaks volumes. So, on behalf of
everyone who's ever found comfort, camaraderie, or a cracking new opportunity
through Chicago Code and Coffee, a massive thank you, John!

You're an absolute G!

Join `Chicago Code and Coffee's Discord`_.

.. _cast-madhavi-rege:

Madhavi Rege
===============================================================================

An absolute professional badass! **Madhavi**, you've been a cracking mentor
and a massive influence in my life. After training under your leadership and
unwavering guidance, I can proudly say I've well and truly mastered the art of
time and work management. I've been asked more times than I can count how do I
manage my time, do all the things I do, or the personal ventures, and all the
other responsibilities I've got on my plate, and my answer's always been the
same: it's down to someone I had the privilege of working with in the past.

You nurtured my ability to think critically (take everything on email!), plan
my schedule with military precision, and execute each task spot on. These are
the very qualities I still carry with me today, weaving them into every
project and professional endeavour I take on.

Your influence on me goes well beyond the workplace, Madhavi. It's not just
about ticking off tasks or meeting deadlines; it's about working smart,
staying sharp, and keeping my head screwed on no matter how hectic life gets.

For that, I'll always be grateful!

.. _cast-sameer-mathad:

Sameer Mathad
===============================================================================

A pursuer of excellence! Much like :ref:`Shilpa <cast-shilpa-musale>`, I met
**Sameer** during my time at DePaul. Being in the same programme, we often
found ourselves sharing classes, working on assignments, and tackling the same
academic hurdles. At I was struggling... As of writing this article, our
friendship, though relatively new, has certainly grown into something I truly
value. Sameer, mate, I know I often take the mick, pulling your leg about your
"goody-two-shoes" attitude while the rest of the class is hanging on by a
thread. But let's be honest, beneath all this teasing, I feel this dynamic
blend of playful banter and mutual respect is what keeps us together.

What I don't usually say, and perhaps should more often, is how much I admire
your steady, no-nonsense approach to hard work and discipline. While I often
pride myself on being a mentor or a bit of a teacher now and then, there have
been plenty of moments where I've felt more like a student, nicking a lesson
or two from you. Our friendship may be just getting started, but there's loads
more to come, more meaningful chats, more moments of growth, and, of course,
plenty more leg-pulling on the side!

Behind all the cheeky humour, there's a bond built on trust, respect, and a
shared pursuit of growth.

.. _cast-shailesh-kewat:

Shailesh Kewat
===============================================================================

A true gent, an absolute mad lad, and my rock-solid pillar of support! Looking
back, it's a bit of a laugh how our friendship kicked off during the "drop"
phase of our lives. All those late nights slogging away revising for tests,
even if the results didn't quite match the work we put in, gave me something
far more valuable: a mate for life and some cracking memories.

**Shailesh**, you've stood by me not just when things were going swimmingly
but also through the rough patches, the moments when I doubted myself the
most. After losing :ref:`Charlotte <charlotte-my-uma>`, you were the one who
kept nudging me, more like shoving me, to be fair |dash| to start teaching
again. You didn't just tell me I could do it; you made damn sure I had
everything I needed to push past my self-doubt.

Your words of wisdom on public speaking and community engagement gave me the
bottle to build this platform and the confidence I carry today. Honestly, I
wouldn't be standing where I am now without you reminding me, time and again,
of what I'm truly capable of.

Here's 🍷 to our friendship!

.. _cast-shilpa-musale:

Shilpa Musale
===============================================================================

My beacon of survival and wisdom in the States! As of writing this
article, **Shilpa** and I have known each other for a little over a year now.
We met during my first year of uni in the US, a time when I was properly
overwhelmed, lost and, at times, felt a bit isolated. But there you were
making me feel safe, seen, and welcomed.

Shilpa, you've definitely gone from being a confidante to a mentor-like figure
in my life. I still remember those long conversations and evenings where you
shared your own experiences, stories that didn't just feel like snippets from
your past but proper life lessons, each laced with a kind of quiet wisdom that
struck a chord with me, especially as I was battling through my own struggles,
both in life and relationships. You've been my anchor, sharing invaluable
advice about career moves or simply how to stay afloat during those tricky
job-hunting days. In my moments of loneliness and depression, your presence
was super duper reassuring. Whether it was a phone call or a simple message to
check in on me or a spontaneous invitation to your place for a quick walk and
talk, you made sure I never felt alone.

Looking back at those moments, I'm filled with nothing but gratitude. I'm
truly chuffed that I found a mentor like you, and I know this bond we share
will only grow stronger as time goes on.

.. _Gaia: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaia
.. _Masala chai: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Masala_chai
.. _Uma: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parvati
.. _Shankar: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shiva
.. _Accenture: https://www.accenture.com/us-en
.. _Krishna: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Krishna
.. _Edward Tufte: https://www.edwardtufte.com
.. _Open Science Trainings: https://www.opensciencetraining.org
.. _Chicago Code and Coffee: https://www.meetup.com/code-and-coffee-chicago/
.. _Chicago Code and Coffee's Discord: https://discord.gg/NNYtWNFByN
.. _Git: https://git-scm.com
